The Three Counties mediating ceasefire
talks between Hamas and Israel have
released a joint statement urging both
sides to accept the proposal Qatar Egypt
and the United States are calling on
them to finalize the proposed agreement
saying that these principles brought the
demands of all parties together in a
deal that serves multiple interests and
will bring immediate relief to the
long-suffering people of Gaza and the
long-suffering hostages and their
families then goes on to say that the
deal offers a road map for a permanent
ceasefire and an ending of the
crisis well Hamas spokesperson Osama
Haman says the group hasn't yet received
the proposal announced by President
Biden on
Friday we have not received anything
written and based on our experience what
is verbally said is not what is usually
documented that is why we are ready to
study any documents with all the details
however what is being broadcast in the
media reflects positivity we can see
that people are conscious that the
continuous War and the killing of our
people will not make us lose our
steadfastness so there were a lot of
positive elements however we need to see
it documented on a piece of paper that
should be sent to
us we just reminder the Israeli
government has banned Al jazer from
reporting in Israel which is why Imran
Khan joins us from the Jordanian Capital
Aman and uh imran's the Israeli War
cabinet is due to meet in the next
couple of hours so we may have a clearer
idea on Israel's
position well I think the operative word
there is May uh let's see what that war
cabinet meeting actually does now
remember this is the regular War cabinet
meeting it wasn't an emergency session
that was convened in the light of the US
president's uh proposal but the war
cabinet is divided you have Benny Gans
and you have the defense minister you
have Galant who have long been talking
about a plan for the day after now Benny
gance has reacted to Israel uh to the US
president's proposal he says it needs to
be studied it needs to be looked at he's
effectively hedging his bets we have a
Netanyahu Aid who has been speaking
publicly uh he says look it's a bad deal
uh but it's something that we do need to
take seriously so if there was a crystal
ball and if political analysts had
access to that crystal ball they'
probably be talking about some sort of
compromise uh deal that allows them to
accept what uh the US President Joe
Biden proposed even though he framed it
as an Israeli proposal so maybe that
will be that the they will agree to the
first phase of that and then they say if
that goes well then we'll do the second
then we'll do uh the third but they
won't agree to a all three phases at
once remember Israel's position uh from
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu is
absolutely clear no permanent ceasefire
until all their goals have been met
Hamas you heard their reaction there
they're willing to look into this and so
it's going to be interesting because
external pressures are also building on
uh the war cabinet uh there was a huge
protest in Tel Aviv last night we're
looking about
120,000 Israelis out on the streets
massive banners suggesting that the
Biden deal needs to be taken that's
something that the war cabinet though
the people within the war cabinet simply
can't ignore public sentiment but prime
minister Benjamin nany who still has his
secret weapon he still has those uh far
right ministers uh who have threatened
to pull out the government if he accepts
uh the deal wholesale that's being
proposed by uh Joe Biden he also knows
that if he can come up with some sort of
compromise they'll remain within the
Coalition and he'll remain in power so a
lot of negotiations to come uh according
to a lot of people uh in Israeli media
political comment ators and the such
it's due to be a very uncomfortable War
cabinet meeting no indeed uh and you'll
be keeping across any developments for
us Imran Khan there for us in Aman and
just a remind again the Israeli
government has banned Al jazer from
reporting inside
Israel make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz